# SMART GUITAR
#### Video Demo: (https://youtu.be/84g0pYlzfog)
#### Description:

This project displays the note of each fret on an electric guitar’s fret board over an image of a Fender Stratocaster (a type of electric guitar). A fret is a position on a given guitar string that is between two of the underlying metal bars on the fret board. Applying pressure to a given fret (the space on the string between two metal bars) will change the pitch of the electric guitar’s string. Electric guitar players create music by applying pressure to frets corresponding to musical notes in their chosen scale. This project displays every note for every fret on a standard electric guitar’s fret board. Furthermore, the user is given options to display only the notes in their musical scale of choice on the fret board. This application was implemented as a website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Python, Flask, Jinja, and SQLite3.

The design of the webpage follows a simple format: a white background with a standard Bootstrap navbar. This was chosen deliberately to keep the look of the web app clean and to not distract from its main functionality. The links and options displayed on the navbar depend on the login status of the user and their saved parameters. If the user is not logged in, the only options appearing on the navbar will be "login" or "register". If the user attempts to access the main page (/, index.html), they will be redirected to the login screen. Once the user logs in, they will be directed to set parameters (/parameters, parameters.html). On this page, they have access to all options on the navbar, but they will be redirected to the parameters page if they do not have any previously set parameters. Once the parameters are set, the user will have full access to the main page (/, index.html) and its navbar options.

When a user visits the website for the first time, they visit (by default) the login screen. If they already have credentials, they will enter their username and password into the respective input fields. If both parameters are filled and correspond to values stored in the ‘users’ table in the application's SQLite3 database (data.db), the user will be granted access to the web application. If the user does not already have credentials to log into the site, they have the option on the login webpage to go to the register webpage. Here, the user will enter their desired username, password, and confirmation of their password (they will enter their password a second time) into the corresponding input fields. If any input field is not filled, their chosen username is already taken, or the value of the password field does not match the value of the confirm password field, the user will be prompted to re-enter their information. Upon successful submission of user credentials on the registration webpage, the username and hashed password will be saved in the ‘users’ table in the SQLite3 database. The user will then be prompted to login using those credentials. Upon successful login, the user will be granted access to the web application.

If the user has never used this web application before, they will be prompted to set parameters for the app: number of strings, number of frets, and whether to use sharp notes (#) or flat notes (b). Example: if the user selects sharp notes (sharps), ‘F#’ will be displayed (where and when applicable). If the user selects flat notes (flats), ‘Gb’ will be displayed for that same note (where and when applicable) because F# and Gb are the same note but referred to differently depending on the context. Currently, aside from the “sharps” and “flats” options (which are both enabled), the only options enabled are “6 strings” for the string count, “21 frets” for the fret count. This is because the other, disabled options will access features that will be created on a later date. The user’s chosen parameters will be saved in the ‘parameters’ table in the SQLite3 database.

Once the user’s desired parameters are selected and saved in the database, the main page of the web application will display. Here, it will display an image of a Fender Stratocaster (electric guitar) with every note displayed on the corresponding fret. The user can then select a scale from which notes will be displayed on the electric guitar. This will enable them to know which frets to play (apply pressure to) in order to play music in that scale (commonly referred to as a key). There is no limit to how many times the user can change the scale (key) or set parameters. However, the scales (keys) selected by the user are not stored or recorded in the database.

The user can view previously saved parameters by clicking on the “Saved Parameters” (/saved_parameters, saved-parameters.html) link in the navbar once they have logged in and selected parameters. This web page will display the number of saved parameter configurations, the string count parameter, the fret count parameter, whether to use sharps or flats, and a timestamp for the configuration. The application determines which of the user’s saved parameters to use based on the most recent time stamp. Next to each saved parameters row in this table is a button to set that row's configuration parameters as the currently used parameters. It does this by resetting that configuration’s timestamp in the ‘parameters’ table in the SQLite3 database to the current timestamp (at the time of pressing the button). The web app will then access and reflect the selected parameter configuration.
